



Network Working Group                                   XCP Working Grou
Internet-Draft                                              AGI-Gateway
Intended status: Standards Track                    September 20, 2026
Expires: March 24, 2027


        The eXtended Context Protocol (XCP): A Trust Encapsulation
                   Layer for Delegated Agent Actions
                        draft-xcp-trust-envelope-00

Abstract

   This document specifies the eXtended Context Protocol (XCP), a shim
   protocol that encapsulates application-layer requests with a
   cryptographically bound authorization context.  Where Transport Layer
   Security (TLS) establishes the authenticity and confidentiality of a
   CHANNEL, XCP establishes the authority and accountability of an
   ACTION taken over that channel.

   XCP defines a Trust Envelope: a header set that commits to the
   encapsulated payload through a binding digest, such that the
   authorization cannot be detached from the request it authorizes.  The
   envelope carries the identity of the acting agent, the human or
   organizational principal on whose authority it acts, the scope that
   authority covers, and an expiry measured in seconds.

   XCP is an increment on OAuth 2.0 rather than an alternative to it.
   OAuth establishes, once, that a client may act for a resource owner
   within a scope; XCP establishes, per request, that a particular
   action with particular arguments falls within that scope, and leaves
   evidence a third party can check.  DPoP binds a proof to an HTTP
   method and URI; XCP binds to method, target and request body,
   because an agent's authority is frequently a property of its
   arguments rather than of its endpoint.

   XCP is transport-agnostic and is specified here over HTTP/1.1,
   HTTP/2, and HTTP/3 running on TLS 1.3.  It does not replace
   application protocols; it encapsulates them.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This draft describes an experimental protocol and reflects a single
   reference implementation.  It has not been reviewed by the IETF and
   carries no consensus.



XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Terminology
   3.  Architectural Position
   3.3.  Relationship to OAuth 2.0

   XCP is not an alternative to OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749] and does not define
   a grant type, an authorization server, or a token format.  It binds
   the EXERCISE of an authority that OAuth has already granted.

   The distinction is the whole of XCP's contribution and is easily
   lost.  OAuth answers a question asked once, at consent time: may this
   client act for this resource owner, within this scope?  It does not,
   and was never intended to, answer the question asked on every
   subsequent request: is THIS call, with THESE arguments, over THIS
   channel, within that scope -- and can a third party establish that
   afterwards?

   For a human clicking a button, the gap between those two questions is
   small, because the human is present at both moments.  For an
   autonomous agent the two moments may be separated by weeks and
   thousands of actions the resource owner never saw.

   XCP is therefore the third step in an established progression, and
   claims no more novelty than that position affords:

      [RFC6749]  OAuth 2.0    who may act, for whom, within what scope
                              -- established once, at grant time

      [RFC9449]  DPoP         the presenter holds the key
                              -- established per request

      This doc  XCP           this exact action, on these arguments,
                              is within that scope
                              -- established per request, body-bound

   [RFC9449] binds a proof to an HTTP method and target URI.  XCP binds
   to method, target and REQUEST BODY, because an agent's authority is
   frequently a property of its arguments rather than of its endpoint:
   the same tool invoked with a different amount, recipient or record
   identifier is a different action in every sense that matters to the
   principal, and identical in every sense visible to a URI.

3.3.1.  Deriving a Mandate From an OAuth Grant

   An implementation SHOULD derive the mandate of Section 5.2 from an
   existing OAuth grant rather than establishing a parallel authority.
   The natural mapping is:

      OAuth 2.0                     XCP mandate
      --------------------------    ----------------------------------
      "scope" [RFC6749]             "mandateScope"
      "sub" [RFC9068]               "principal"
      token expiry                  "notAfter" (or sooner)
      "act" actor chain [RFC8693]   delegation path (Section 3.3.2)

   An implementation MUST NOT permit a mandate to convey authority
   beyond the grant it derives from.  XCP narrows; it does not widen.
   A mechanism that can enlarge an existing grant is a privilege
   escalation path irrespective of what it is called.

   The practical consequence is deployment cost.  An organisation that
   already operates OAuth infrastructure does not need to establish a
   second authority to adopt XCP; it needs to bind the authority it has
   to the requests that exercise it.

3.3.2.  Delegation Chains and Actor Splicing

   Where an agent delegates to another agent, [RFC8693] represents the
   chain through nested "act" claims.  That representation is vulnerable
   to SPLICING: an attacker who can insert an entry into the chain
   acquires the authority of the entry above it, and nothing in the
   claim structure prevents the insertion.

   An implementation of this document MUST bind the entire delegation
   path into the authenticated data of the credential, such that
   altering, truncating or extending the recorded path invalidates it.
   Binding each hop to its neighbour is insufficient on its own: an
   attacker who controls one hop can then re-form a valid-looking pair.

   Implementations SHOULD additionally refuse a path in which any
   identity appears more than once, since a repeated identity indicates
   either a loop or an attempt to launder a step.

3.4.  Relationship to Secure Asset Transfer

   The Secure Asset Transfer Protocol working group has specified a
   gateway-mediated protocol for sharing views of ledger state across
   system boundaries [SATP-DATA].  Although its subject matter is
   distributed ledgers rather than agents, its architecture and this
   document's arrive at the same shape, and the convergence is worth
   making explicit rather than leaving for a reader to notice.

   Both place a GATEWAY at a domain boundary, and both insist that the
   gateway be minimally trusted.  [SATP-DATA] states the requirement
   directly: the integrity of the protocol should not depend on the
   reliability of either gateway.  Its two mechanisms for achieving that
   are the two this document specifies:

      [SATP-DATA] Section 5.9      This document
      -------------------------    ------------------------------------
      signatures over requests     the binding digest (Section 4.2),
      and responses so gateways    which a gateway cannot alter without
      cannot tamper undetected     invalidating the credential

      end-to-end encryption so     credentials sealed to the origin, so
      gateways cannot exfiltrate   a relaying gateway forwards
      view contents                ciphertext it holds no key for

   Two further correspondences are exact.  [SATP-DATA] separates an
   ACCESS policy held by the source from a VERIFICATION policy held by
   the destination; this document separates the mandate, which bounds
   what a caller may request, from graded reachability (Section 9),
   which bounds what a consumer will accept.  And both fail closed on an
   absent policy: [SATP-DATA] applies least privilege and rejects the
   request, as Section 8 of this document requires.

   The differences are equally worth stating.  [SATP-DATA] specifies a
   BILATERAL protocol and explicitly defers the multi-party case.  This
   document specifies transitive trust with decay across a bounded
   number of hops, which is a harder problem and a weaker guarantee.

   [SATP-DATA] also requires that a protocol avoid reliance on a global
   clock and use purely asynchronous message transfer.  This document
   does not meet that requirement: credential expiry (Section 5.3)
   assumes loosely synchronised clocks within the skew tolerance stated
   there.  An implementation serving both protocols should be aware that
   the two make different assumptions, and Section 5.3 offers the
   server-issued nonce of [RFC9449] where skew cannot be bounded.

3.4.1.  A Contribution to an Open Problem

   [SATP-DATA] records remote gateway discovery as an open issue: how a
   gateway finds the gateways acting for a remote system is unresolved,
   and is there compared to the routing problem in packet networking.
   Global identification of systems and their public keys is recorded as
   a second open issue.

   Section 11 of this document addresses both, for its own domain, by
   mechanisms that are not specific to it: an unauthenticated well-known
   resource carrying a node record, a long-lived node identity distinct
   from any certificate, and a signed binding between the two carrying a
   monotonic sequence so that certificate rotation neither changes the
   identity nor permits replay of a superseded binding.

   That construction is offered as a candidate answer rather than a
   claim of one.  It has been demonstrated between two nodes and not at
   scale, and the authors have not established that it satisfies the
   trust assumptions of a ledger system, which differ from those of an
   agent gateway in ways this document has not analysed.

4.  The Trust Envelope
   5.  Header Field Definitions
   6.  Channel Binding
   7.  Scope Derivation
   8.  Verifier Behaviour
   9.  Graded Reachability
   10. Error Signalling
   11. Discovery
   12. IANA Considerations
   13. Security Considerations
   14. Privacy Considerations
   15. Centralization Considerations
   16. References

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Problem Statement

   An autonomous software agent acting on a principal's behalf presents,
   today, exactly what a script presents: a bearer credential.  The
   credential identifies an account, not the human who authorized this
   particular action; it carries ambient scope granted at consent time
   rather than scope bound to this call; and it leaves no artifact a
   third party can verify afterwards.

   Consequently a service receiving automated traffic cannot distinguish
   an agent acting under a named person's explicit instruction from an
   indiscriminate harvester.  The observable response has been blanket
   restriction of automated access, which penalises both.

   The missing element is not transport security.  TLS [RFC8446]
   establishes that a channel terminates where it claims to and that its
   contents are confidential.  It says nothing about whether the party
   at the far end is permitted to take the action being requested, on
   whose authority, or within what bounds.

1.2.  Approach

   XCP encapsulates an application-layer request in a Trust Envelope
   whose header commits to the encapsulated payload.  The commitment is
   what makes this encapsulation rather than annotation: the
   authorization cannot be lifted from one request and applied to
   another, because the binding digest covers the request's method,
   target, and body.




XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   Agent:      An autonomous software process that originates requests.

   Principal:  The natural person or organization on whose authority an
               Agent acts.  An Agent always has a Principal; an Agent
               that cannot name one is unaccountable by definition.

   Mandate:    A signed statement by a Principal delegating a bounded
               set of capabilities to an Agent for a bounded period.

   Envelope:   The XCP header set plus the encapsulated payload.

   Gateway:    An intermediary that verifies Envelopes and forwards
               permitted requests.  A Gateway is a verifier and a
               router.  It is NOT a custodian: it holds neither the
               Principal's credentials nor their funds.

   Verifier:   The component evaluating an Envelope.  It MAY be
               co-located with the Gateway or reached over a network.

3.  Architectural Position

3.1.  Relationship to the OSI Reference Model

   XCP occupies a position directly analogous to that of TLS.  TLS is
   not cleanly assignable to a single OSI layer; it is conventionally
   described as a shim between transport and application.  XCP is a
   second such shim, layered above TLS:

      +---------------------------------------------+
      |  Application    MCP, A2A, HTTP semantics     |
      +---------------------------------------------+
      |  XCP            authority of the ACTION      |  <- this document
      +---------------------------------------------+
      |  TLS            authenticity of the CHANNEL  |
      +---------------------------------------------+
      |  TCP / QUIC     reliable delivery            |
      +---------------------------------------------+
      |  IP             reachability                 |
      +---------------------------------------------+

   The parallel is exact in one respect worth stating.  Before TLS, a
   connection's authenticity was asserted by the application and



XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


   unverifiable by anyone else; TLS moved that property below the
   application and made it checkable by a third party.  XCP proposes the
   same move for authority.

3.2.  On "Layer 8"

   The term "Layer 8" has an established informal meaning in operational
   practice: it denotes the human, and is used when a fault lies with a
   person or an organization rather than with equipment.

   This document does not propose adding a Layer 8.  Layer 8 already
   exists, has always existed, and is where authority actually
   originates.  What has been missing is any means of ADDRESSING it: no
   protocol field has ever named the human on whose behalf a packet was
   sent.  Authority entered the stack as an unverifiable assertion at
   the application layer, if at all.

   XCP's contribution is therefore more modest and more precise than
   "a new layer".  It makes the existing Layer 8 machine-legible: the
   Principal becomes a named, bounded, revocable participant in the
   protocol rather than an assumption behind it.

   OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749] is the closest thing the stack already has to a
   Layer 8 protocol, and it is worth being exact about what it did and
   did not achieve.  It carries a human decision -- a grant -- into
   machine systems, and it is deployed at enormous scale.  What it does
   not do is make that decision checkable at the moment of any
   particular action: the token presented on the ten-thousandth request
   is indistinguishable from the token presented on the first, and
   neither reveals whether the action being taken is one the Principal
   would recognise.

   The incremental step this document proposes is therefore small and
   specific.  Layer 8 is not new, and OAuth already addresses it.  What
   is added is per-action verifiability of an authority OAuth already
   established, bound cryptographically to the request that exercises
   it.  A reader who takes nothing else from Section 3 should take
   this: XCP is an increment on OAuth, positioned below the application
   and above TLS, and it is defensible only as such.

   Implementers are cautioned against the stronger claim.  A protocol
   that declared itself a new OSI layer without an encapsulation
   relationship would be making an architectural assertion it could not
   support.  The encapsulation described in Section 4 is what earns the
   layering claim, and it is the only basis on which this document makes
   it.

3.3.  Relationship to OAuth 2.0

   XCP is not an alternative to OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749] and does not define
   a grant type, an authorization server, or a token format.  It binds
   the EXERCISE of an authority that OAuth has already granted.

   The distinction is the whole of XCP's contribution and is easily
   lost.  OAuth answers a question asked once, at consent time: may this
   client act for this resource owner, within this scope?  It does not,
   and was never intended to, answer the question asked on every
   subsequent request: is THIS call, with THESE arguments, over THIS
   channel, within that scope -- and can a third party establish that
   afterwards?

   For a human clicking a button, the gap between those two questions is
   small, because the human is present at both moments.  For an
   autonomous agent the two moments may be separated by weeks and
   thousands of actions the resource owner never saw.

   XCP is therefore the third step in an established progression, and
   claims no more novelty than that position affords:

      [RFC6749]  OAuth 2.0    who may act, for whom, within what scope
                              -- established once, at grant time

      [RFC9449]  DPoP         the presenter holds the key
                              -- established per request

      This doc  XCP           this exact action, on these arguments,
                              is within that scope
                              -- established per request, body-bound

   [RFC9449] binds a proof to an HTTP method and target URI.  XCP binds
   to method, target and REQUEST BODY, because an agent's authority is
   frequently a property of its arguments rather than of its endpoint:
   the same tool invoked with a different amount, recipient or record
   identifier is a different action in every sense that matters to the
   principal, and identical in every sense visible to a URI.

3.3.1.  Deriving a Mandate From an OAuth Grant

   An implementation SHOULD derive the mandate of Section 5.2 from an
   existing OAuth grant rather than establishing a parallel authority.
   The natural mapping is:

      OAuth 2.0                     XCP mandate
      --------------------------    ----------------------------------
      "scope" [RFC6749]             "mandateScope"
      "sub" [RFC9068]               "principal"
      token expiry                  "notAfter" (or sooner)
      "act" actor chain [RFC8693]   delegation path (Section 3.3.2)

   An implementation MUST NOT permit a mandate to convey authority
   beyond the grant it derives from.  XCP narrows; it does not widen.
   A mechanism that can enlarge an existing grant is a privilege
   escalation path irrespective of what it is called.

   The practical consequence is deployment cost.  An organisation that
   already operates OAuth infrastructure does not need to establish a
   second authority to adopt XCP; it needs to bind the authority it has
   to the requests that exercise it.

3.3.2.  Delegation Chains and Actor Splicing

   Where an agent delegates to another agent, [RFC8693] represents the
   chain through nested "act" claims.  That representation is vulnerable
   to SPLICING: an attacker who can insert an entry into the chain
   acquires the authority of the entry above it, and nothing in the
   claim structure prevents the insertion.

   An implementation of this document MUST bind the entire delegation
   path into the authenticated data of the credential, such that
   altering, truncating or extending the recorded path invalidates it.
   Binding each hop to its neighbour is insufficient on its own: an
   attacker who controls one hop can then re-form a valid-looking pair.

   Implementations SHOULD additionally refuse a path in which any
   identity appears more than once, since a repeated identity indicates
   either a loop or an attempt to launder a step.

3.4.  Relationship to Secure Asset Transfer

   The Secure Asset Transfer Protocol working group has specified a
   gateway-mediated protocol for sharing views of ledger state across
   system boundaries [SATP-DATA].  Although its subject matter is
   distributed ledgers rather than agents, its architecture and this
   document's arrive at the same shape, and the convergence is worth
   making explicit rather than leaving for a reader to notice.

   Both place a GATEWAY at a domain boundary, and both insist that the
   gateway be minimally trusted.  [SATP-DATA] states the requirement
   directly: the integrity of the protocol should not depend on the
   reliability of either gateway.  Its two mechanisms for achieving that
   are the two this document specifies:

      [SATP-DATA] Section 5.9      This document
      -------------------------    ------------------------------------
      signatures over requests     the binding digest (Section 4.2),
      and responses so gateways    which a gateway cannot alter without
      cannot tamper undetected     invalidating the credential

      end-to-end encryption so     credentials sealed to the origin, so
      gateways cannot exfiltrate   a relaying gateway forwards
      view contents                ciphertext it holds no key for

   Two further correspondences are exact.  [SATP-DATA] separates an
   ACCESS policy held by the source from a VERIFICATION policy held by
   the destination; this document separates the mandate, which bounds
   what a caller may request, from graded reachability (Section 9),
   which bounds what a consumer will accept.  And both fail closed on an
   absent policy: [SATP-DATA] applies least privilege and rejects the
   request, as Section 8 of this document requires.

   The differences are equally worth stating.  [SATP-DATA] specifies a
   BILATERAL protocol and explicitly defers the multi-party case.  This
   document specifies transitive trust with decay across a bounded
   number of hops, which is a harder problem and a weaker guarantee.

   [SATP-DATA] also requires that a protocol avoid reliance on a global
   clock and use purely asynchronous message transfer.  This document
   does not meet that requirement: credential expiry (Section 5.3)
   assumes loosely synchronised clocks within the skew tolerance stated
   there.  An implementation serving both protocols should be aware that
   the two make different assumptions, and Section 5.3 offers the
   server-issued nonce of [RFC9449] where skew cannot be bounded.

3.4.1.  A Contribution to an Open Problem

   [SATP-DATA] records remote gateway discovery as an open issue: how a
   gateway finds the gateways acting for a remote system is unresolved,
   and is there compared to the routing problem in packet networking.
   Global identification of systems and their public keys is recorded as
   a second open issue.

   Section 11 of this document addresses both, for its own domain, by
   mechanisms that are not specific to it: an unauthenticated well-known
   resource carrying a node record, a long-lived node identity distinct
   from any certificate, and a signed binding between the two carrying a
   monotonic sequence so that certificate rotation neither changes the
   identity nor permits replay of a superseded binding.

   That construction is offered as a candidate answer rather than a
   claim of one.  It has been demonstrated between two nodes and not at
   scale, and the authors have not established that it satisfies the
   trust assumptions of a ledger system, which differ from those of an
   agent gateway in ways this document has not analysed.

4.  The Trust Envelope

4.1.  Structure

   An Envelope consists of the XCP header fields defined in Section 5
   and the encapsulated payload, which is the application-layer request
   body:

      +----------------------------------------------+
      |  XCP-Agent-Identity                          |
      |  XCP-Mandate                                 |   Envelope header
      |  XCP-Request-Credential   <-- commits below  |
      +----------------------------------------------+
      |                                              |
      |  Encapsulated payload (opaque to XCP)        |   Envelope body
      |                                              |
      +----------------------------------------------+

   XCP does not parse the payload.  A Verifier MUST be able to reach a
   decision without doing so; see Section 7.




XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


4.2.  The Binding Digest

   The header commits to the payload through a binding digest:

      bind = H( method || 0x00 || target || 0x00 || H(payload) )

   where H is the hash algorithm named in the credential, "method" is
   the application-layer method name, and "target" is the application-
   layer object name.  The null separators prevent ambiguity between
   adjacent fields.

   Fields carried in the digest MUST be transmitted in canonical form.
   A
   Verifier MUST reject a field carrying leading or trailing whitespace
   or a control character, and MUST NOT normalise it.

   This requirement is not stylistic.  Normalisation assumes every
   parser
   in the chain normalises identically, and differential testing of two
   independent implementations of this document showed that they do not:
   [RFC9110] treats optional whitespace around a field value as not part
   of the value, so one HTTP stack stripped it before the application
   saw
   it and another did not.  Both implementations were arguably
   conforming, and they disagreed about whether the same bytes named the
   same tool.

   Refusing non-canonical input removes the disagreement rather than
   resolving it in one direction.

   The binding digest is covered by the credential signature.
   Consequently:

   o  A credential captured from one request and replayed against a
      different method, target, or body MUST fail verification.

   o  A Gateway that alters the payload invalidates the credential, so
      modification in transit is detectable rather than merely
      discouraged.

   o  An empty payload is permitted and hashes to H(""), so the
      construction is uniform across requests with and without bodies.

4.3.  Statelessness

   An Envelope MUST be self-describing.  A Verifier MUST NOT require
   state established by a prior request in the same connection or
   session in order to evaluate it.

   This is a deliberate constraint rather than an implementation
   convenience.  Session identifiers are long-lived bearer tokens of
   broad scope: valuable to steal and slow to revoke.  A credential
   bound to one method, one target, one payload, and an expiry measured
   in seconds is worth substantially less to an attacker and requires no
   session affinity across Gateway replicas.

5.  Header Field Definitions

5.1.  XCP-Agent-Identity

   Identifies the Agent and the channel it is bound to.

      XCP-Agent-Identity = agent-id ";" realm-id ";" channel-binding

      agent-id         = 1*DIGIT
      realm-id         = 1*DIGIT
      channel-binding  = "0x" 64HEXDIG

   The channel-binding value is defined in Section 6.  A Verifier MUST



XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


   reject an Envelope whose channel-binding does not correspond to the
   TLS connection over which it arrived.

5.2.  XCP-Mandate

   Carries the Principal's delegation, as a JSON object [RFC8259]:

      {
        "mandateId":    <string>,
        "principal":    <string>,
        "mandateScope": [ <scope> ... ],
        "notAfter":     <integer, seconds since epoch>,
        "proof":        [ <string> ... ],
        "signature":    <string>
      }

   "mandateScope" enumerates the capabilities delegated.  A Verifier
   MUST reject an Envelope whose derived scope (Section 7) is not
   covered.

   Attributes asserted by an identity provider MAY narrow the effective
   mandate.  They MUST NOT widen it.  An implementation that permits
   widening allows a compromised identity provider to manufacture
   authority that no Principal granted.

5.3.  XCP-Request-Credential

   A signed assertion binding the Agent, the channel, the derived scope,
   the binding digest, and an expiry.  It is the element that makes the
   Envelope an encapsulation.

      XCP-Request-Credential = base64url( credential )

   The credential object contains at minimum:

      agent-id, realm-id, channel-binding, scope, bind, exp, nonce, alg,
      signer, sig

   "exp" SHOULD be no more than 60 seconds after issuance and MUST NOT
   exceed 300 seconds.  Verifiers MUST reject expired credentials and
   MUST NOT apply clock skew tolerance exceeding 30 seconds in either
   direction.

   These figures follow OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of Possession
   [RFC9449], which solves a closely related problem: binding a
   per-request proof to an HTTP method and target URI so that a captured
   proof cannot be reused elsewhere.  RFC 9449 declines to fix a
   lifetime, observing only that clock offsets should be accommodated
   "on the order of seconds or minutes"; deployed implementations have
   converged on a 60-second acceptance window with roughly 30 seconds of
   skew tolerance.  This document adopts that convergence rather than
   asserting an independent figure.

   Implementations SHOULD also observe the wider guidance in [RFC9700],
   which consolidates a decade of deployed OAuth experience and treats
   short-lived, sender-constrained credentials as the baseline rather
   than a hardening step.

   Where clock skew cannot be bounded, implementations SHOULD prefer a
   server-issued nonce over a client-supplied timestamp, as described in
   [RFC9449], Section 8.  A nonce carrying the server's own time yields
   the same result under arbitrarily large skew.

   The signature algorithm is carried in "alg" so that the construction
   is not bound to a single signature scheme.  Implementations MUST
   support at least one algorithm providing 128-bit security.

5.4.  XCP-Verified-By

   Set by a Gateway on requests it forwards, naming itself.  A receiving
   application uses it to distinguish verified traffic from direct



XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


   access.

   An origin server that accepts requests both through a Gateway and
   directly MUST NOT treat this header as evidence in the direct case,
   since a client can set it.  Trust in this header derives from network
   position, not from the header itself.

6.  Channel Binding

   The channel-binding value binds the Envelope to the TLS connection,
   so that a captured Envelope cannot be replayed over a different
   channel.

   Implementations MUST use one of:

   o  The TLS exporter [RFC5705] with label "EXPORTER-XCP-channel", 32
      octets.  This is RECOMMENDED for new deployments.

   o  H(DER-encoded client certificate), where mutual TLS is in use.

   The exporter method is preferred because it binds to the specific TLS
   session rather than to a credential that may be reused across
   sessions.  The certificate method is retained because it is
   deployable where the exporter is not exposed by the TLS stack.

   A Verifier MUST NOT accept an Envelope whose channel-binding it
   cannot independently compute from the connection.

7.  Scope Derivation

   Scope MUST be derivable from header fields alone, without parsing the
   payload.  Where the encapsulated protocol carries method and target
   in headers, the derivation is:

      scope = protocol-tag ":" method "/" target

   A Verifier that must parse a payload to determine scope cannot make
   an authorization decision at header speed, and cannot make one at all
   for payloads it does not understand.  Requiring header-derivable
   scope keeps the Verifier independent of the application protocols it
   protects.

   Wildcards in mandate scope are RECOMMENDED to be limited to a
   trailing "/*".  Unconstrained wildcards defeat the purpose of scoping
   while appearing to satisfy it.







XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


8.  Verifier Behaviour

   A Verifier MUST evaluate, in this order, and MUST reject on the first
   failure:

   1.  The channel-binding corresponds to this TLS connection.

   2.  The credential signature verifies under the named algorithm.

   3.  The credential has not expired.

   4.  The binding digest matches the method, target, and payload
       actually received.

   5.  The derived scope is covered by the mandate.

   6.  The mandate has not expired and has not been revoked.

   The ordering is normative.  Checking scope before signature would
   perform work on behalf of an unauthenticated party; checking the
   binding digest before expiry would hash a payload for a credential
   already known to be stale.

   A Verifier MUST fail closed.  If any check cannot be completed, the
   Envelope MUST be rejected.  In particular, an implementation MUST NOT
   treat the unavailability of a revocation source as evidence of non-
   revocation.

9.  Graded Reachability

   An Agent frequently encounters origin servers about which nothing is
   known.  Binary admission forces a choice between refusing useful work
   and extending unearned trust.

   This document deliberately does not specify how an origin comes to be
   classified.  That separation follows the Remote ATtestation
   procedureS
   architecture [RFC9334], which defines roles and their interactions
   while leaving evidence formats and appraisal policies to separate
   documents.  The precedent is sound for the same reason here:
   classification mechanisms vary by deployment and evolve faster than
   the protocol that consumes their output.

   Implementations SHOULD adopt the RATS vocabulary, which maps onto XCP
   roles as follows:

      RATS role [RFC9334]      XCP counterpart
      ---------------------    -----------------------------------------
      Attester                 an origin presenting evidence about
                               itself
      Verifier                 the component appraising that evidence
                               against an Appraisal Policy for Evidence
      Relying Party            the Gateway, applying its own policy to
                               the resulting classification

   The distinction RATS draws between appraising evidence and acting on
   the result is load-bearing here.  A Gateway is a Relying Party: it
   consumes a classification and applies its own policy to it.  It is
   not obliged to accept a classification it did not ask for, and it
   MUST NOT treat an origin's self-description as evidence of its own
   trustworthiness.

   A Gateway MAY classify origins and apply graded treatment.  Where it
   does:

   o  An unclassified origin MUST NOT be permitted to cause state change
      at the Agent's Principal, and its responses MUST be marked such
      that downstream processing does not treat them as authoritative.

   o  Settlement or other irreversible effects MUST require both an
      accountable Agent and a classified origin.

   This section is deliberately permissive about classification
   mechanism and strict about its consequences.  How trust is
   established varies; what unearned trust may do should not.





XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


9.1.  Deployment Profiles

   This document defines two profiles.  An implementation MUST declare
   which it operates in.

   The DEVELOPMENT profile permits self-asserted identity and optional
   hardening.  It MUST NOT be used to serve traffic on behalf of
   principals other than the operator's own.

   The PRODUCTION profile MUST satisfy all of the following, and an
   implementation MUST refuse to start if any is unmet:

   o  enforcement posture, not observation;
   o  an externally authenticated identity source.  Self-registration
      MUST NOT be available, since possession of the endpoint would
      otherwise be sufficient to assert an identity;
   o  argument filtering and related hardening enabled;
   o  rate limiting enabled and failing closed;
   o  authenticated administrative access;
   o  peer enrolment refused over unauthenticated transport.

   Refusing to start is normative rather than advisory.  A profile that
   is claimed and not enforced is worse than one that was never claimed,
   because it is relied upon.

9.2.  Revocation Semantics

   Federation has no global consensus by design.  Revocation therefore
   provides EVENTUAL CONVERGENCE, not globally synchronous withdrawal of
   trust: a revoked peer may remain trusted by nodes that have not yet
   received the revocation.

   The bound on that exposure is credential lifetime, not propagation
   speed.  Implementations MUST NOT rely on revocation reaching a peer
   before a credential expires, and SHOULD shorten credential lifetimes
   rather than lengthen revocation timeouts where an action is
   irreversible.

9.3.  Delegation Is Not Delivery

   Authorisation to delegate an action to another agent MUST NOT be
   reported as, or relied upon as, evidence that the action was
   delivered.  The destination identity MUST authenticate independently
   before execution is considered to have occurred.

   An implementation that returns a success indication on the strength
   of the initiating agent's authority alone is signalling a property it
   has not established.

9.4.  Forwarded Credentials

   Where an implementation relays a credential intended for an origin
   server, it MUST NOT read, log or persist the value; MUST bound its
   size; and MUST bind it to a single destination, refusing to relay a
   credential offered for one origin to another.  In the PRODUCTION
   profile the intended destination MUST be stated explicitly.

   An unbounded, unbound pass-through field is a confused-deputy
   surface: the relay holds a credential it cannot read and forwards it
   wherever the caller directs.

10.  Error Signalling

   Verification failures map to HTTP status codes as follows:

      401  Envelope absent, malformed, expired, or unverifiable
      403  Envelope valid but scope not covered by the mandate
      413  Payload exceeds the limit for the Agent's classification
      429  Rate limit exceeded
      502  Verification succeeded; the origin was unreachable

   Responses SHOULD carry a machine-readable reason.  A rejection
   without a reason is not contestable, and an uncontestable decision is
   not governance.

   Implementations MUST NOT vary error detail in a way that reveals
   whether an identifier exists.  In particular, "no such Agent" and
   "signature invalid" MUST produce indistinguishable responses.

11.  Discovery

   An implementation MAY publish its capabilities at the well-known URI
   "/.well-known/xcp-node.json" [RFC8615], served without
   authentication.  A peer must be able to read it before any
   relationship exists.

   The document SHOULD carry the protocol versions supported, the
   features implemented, and a signed binding of the current TLS
   certificate to a long-lived node identity.

   An implementation MUST NOT assign verified trust to a peer on the
   basis of a domain the peer's own record declares.  The record MUST be
   bound to the authenticated TLS endpoint it was retrieved from before
   any trust is assigned, and where no certificate is available,
   verified trust MUST NOT be reachable.

   A node MUST NOT assign mutual trust on the basis of metadata supplied
   by the party seeking it.  Mutual trust means each party verified the
   other; the second half cannot be self-asserted.

   Node identity SHOULD NOT be the certificate itself.  Certificates
   rotate; an identity that rotates with them is lost several times a
   year, taking with it every attestation any peer has made.

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  HTTP Field Name Registrations

   This document requests registration of the following in the "HTTP
   Field Name Registry":

      +-------------------------+-----------+-----------------------+
      | Field Name              | Status    | Reference             |
      +-------------------------+-----------+-----------------------+
      | XCP-Agent-Identity      | permanent | This document, 5.1    |
      | XCP-Mandate             | permanent | This document, 5.2    |
      | XCP-Request-Credential  | permanent | This document, 5.3    |
      | XCP-Verified-By         | permanent | This document, 5.4    |
      +-------------------------+-----------+-----------------------+




XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


12.2.  Well-Known URI Registration

   This document requests registration of "xcp-node.json" in the "Well-
   Known URIs" registry, per [RFC8615].

12.3.  TLS Exporter Label

   This document requests registration of "EXPORTER-XCP-channel" in the
   "TLS Exporter Labels" registry, per [RFC5705].

13.  Security Considerations

13.1.  What XCP Provides

   XCP binds an authorization to a specific action over a specific
   channel for a bounded period.  A credential captured in transit is
   usable only for the exact request it accompanied, only over the same
   TLS session, and only until it expires.

13.2.  What XCP Does Not Provide

   XCP does not establish that a Principal's delegation was wise, that
   an Agent will behave as intended, or that an origin server is honest.
   It establishes that an action was authorized and by whom, which is a
   precondition for accountability and not a substitute for it.

   XCP does not protect against a compromised Gateway.  A Gateway sees
   every Envelope it verifies.  Deployments requiring confidentiality
   from the Gateway must encrypt payloads to the origin independently.

   XCP does not defend against a compromised Principal.  Authority
   delegated by a compromised Principal is validly delegated.

13.3.  Replay

   Replay is bounded rather than eliminated.  A credential replayed
   within its lifetime, over the same channel, for the identical
   request, will verify -- because it is indistinguishable from the
   original.  Origin servers requiring exactly-once semantics MUST
   maintain nonce state; XCP deliberately does not, as doing so would
   reintroduce the session state Section 4.3 removes.

   This is the same position taken by [RFC9449], Section 11.1, which
   places replay rejection on the resource server rather than in the
   proof mechanism, and accepts that a captured proof remains usable for
   the duration of its acceptance window.  Deployments requiring
   stronger guarantees should combine XCP with the server-issued nonce
   mechanism of [RFC9449], Section 8.

13.4.  Denial of Service

   Signature verification is more expensive than the parsing that
   precedes it.  Implementations MUST apply rate limiting BEFORE
   verification, and SHOULD meter unauthenticated requests separately,
   since rejecting a request still consumes resources.




XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                [Page 10]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


   A Verifier keyed on a caller-supplied identifier is itself a memory
   exhaustion vector.  Implementations MUST bound the number of tracked
   callers.  [RFC9449], Section 11.1 gives the same warning for servers
   tracking "jti" values, and recommends rejecting oversized identifiers
   or storing only a hash.  Implementations of this document SHOULD do
   likewise.

13.5.  Downgrade

   An implementation MUST NOT accept an Envelope lacking a credential on
   the grounds that the peer appears not to support one.  Absence of a
   credential is absence of authorization.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   The Envelope names a Principal.  This is the protocol's purpose and
   its principal privacy cost.

   Implementations SHOULD permit an Agent to demonstrate that it is
   authorized without disclosing which individual authorized it.  A
   classification carrying the assurance level of the Principal,
   without the Principal's identity, is sufficient for most
   authorization decisions and discloses materially less.

   Mandates SHOULD carry the narrowest scope that permits the intended
   work.  A broad mandate is a standing disclosure of what its holder
   may do.

   Audit records generated from Envelopes constitute personal data in
   most jurisdictions.  Implementations SHOULD commit to ciphertext
   rather than plaintext in tamper-evident structures, so that content
   can be rendered unreadable without invalidating the structure.

15.  Centralization Considerations

   [RFC9518] observes that standards bodies have a limited ability to
   prevent centralization but can make contributions that assist
   decentralization, and that a specification's structural choices
   determine which outcome it makes easy.  A trust layer deserves that
   scrutiny more than most protocols, because a component that decides
   what is trustworthy is an unusually attractive thing to control.

   This section states the risks rather than the mitigations, because
   the mitigations are weaker than the risks.

15.1.  How This Protocol Could Centralize

   Three paths are foreseeable.

   The first is operational.  Running a verifying gateway is work, and
   the economics of operating infrastructure favour consolidation.  A
   deployment in which most agents route through gateways operated by a
   handful of providers would satisfy every requirement in this document
   while placing those providers between most agents and most tools.
   Nothing here prevents that outcome.

   The second is definitional.  Section 9 permits graded reachability
   but does not say who classifies an origin.  If classification
   converges on a small number of authorities, those authorities decide
   what the agentic web can reach, and the protocol will have moved a
   power it was designed to distribute.

   The third is the registry.  Where an implementation anchors identity
   or revocation in a shared registry, whoever controls that registry
   controls admission.  This document treats such anchoring as optional
   for that reason, and an implementation that requires it should
   understand that it has chosen a chokepoint.

15.2.  What This Document Does About It

   [RFC9518] notes that well-defined, stable interfaces create the
   opportunity to use different providers for a function, and that
   encryption can enforce boundaries by limiting which parties can
   access content.  Both apply here, and both are implemented rather
   than asserted:

   o  The envelope is specified independently of any implementation, and
      a conformance suite exists that tests an implementation as a black
      box.  A second, independently written implementation passes it
      (Appendix A).  Substitutability is therefore demonstrated rather
      than claimed, which is the property [RFC9518] identifies as
      load-bearing.

   o  Credentials sealed to an origin remove the gateway operator from
      the set of parties who can read what passes through them
      (Section 3.4).  A gateway that cannot read the traffic it carries
      is a less valuable position to occupy.

   o  Federation requires no consensus.  Nodes may hold differing views
      of who is trustworthy, trust decays with distance, and no global
      agreement is needed for the protocol to function.  A design that
      forced one answer about trustworthiness would be a chokepoint by
      construction.

   o  A node operating with no registry, no chain and no peers is
      conformant.  The floor is a single operator answerable to nobody
      but themselves.

15.3.  What It Does Not Do

   None of the above prevents the first path in Section 15.1, and the
   authors do not believe any specification could.  Market
   concentration in the operation of infrastructure is not a problem
   that protocol design solves, and a document claiming otherwise would
   be making the error [RFC9518] warns against: treating a structural
   outcome as a technical one.

   The honest position is that this document makes decentralized
   operation possible and does not make it likely.  Whether it occurs
   depends on decisions outside the protocol, and readers evaluating the
   proposal on decentralization grounds should weigh it accordingly.

16.  References

15.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC5705]  Rescorla, E., "Keying Material Exporters for Transport
              Layer Security (TLS)", RFC 5705, March 2010.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, May 2017.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
              Data Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259, December 2017.

   [RFC8446]  Rescorla, E., "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
              Version 1.3", RFC 8446, August 2018.




XCP Working Group        Expires March 24, 2027                [Page 11]

Internet-Draft              XCP Trust Envelope            September 2026


   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers
              (URIs)", RFC 8615, May 2019.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, October 2012.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              January 2020.

   [RFC9068]  Bertocci, V., "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0
              Access Tokens", RFC 9068, October 2021.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, September 2023.

15.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9518]  Nottingham, M., "Centralization, Decentralization, and
              Internet Standards", RFC 9518, December 2023.

   [SATP-DATA]
              Ramakrishna, V., Pandit, V., Abebe, E., Nishad, S., and
              D. Vinayagamurthy, "Protocol for Requesting and Sharing
              Views across Networks", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ramakrishna-satp-data-sharing, September 2026.

   [RFC3552]  Rescorla, E. and B. Korver, "Guidelines for Writing RFC
              Text on Security Considerations", BCP 72, RFC 3552,
              July 2003.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110, June 2022.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, January 2023.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security",
              BCP 240, RFC 9700, January 2025.

   [MCP]      Model Context Protocol, "Specification 2026-07-28",
              July 2026.

Appendix A.  Implementation Status

   Two independent implementations exist at the time of writing:

   o  A reference implementation in Python.

   o  A second implementation in Node, written against this document
      rather than ported from the first, which passes the conformance
      suite for the core, stateless, and security profiles.

   The second implementation is the only evidence available that this
   specification is implementable from the document alone.  Readers
   evaluating the draft are encouraged to weight it accordingly and to
   treat any divergence between the two as a defect in this text.

   Measured overhead of verification against an equivalent unprotected
   proxy is approximately 0.21 ms at the median, dominated by signature
   verification.

Appendix B.  Security Validation Evidence

B.1.  Methodology and Its Limits

   Three mechanisms have been applied: attack-oriented regression tests,
   protocol conformance tests, and source-level security review.

   Two of the three were conducted by the authors and are therefore
   self-assessment.  The third was conducted independently by a party
   with no involvement in the design, working from the published source
   tree.  That distinction is load-bearing and is preserved throughout
   this appendix: findings are attributed, and self-assessment is not
   presented as independent evidence.

   None of this constitutes a penetration test, a formal verification,
   or a commissioned third-party audit.

B.2.  Resolution of the -00 Open Issues

B.2.1.  Credential Lifetime

   RESOLVED.  Section 5.3 follows [RFC9449], which addresses a closely
   related problem and deliberately declines to fix a lifetime, noting
   only that clock offsets arise "on the order of seconds or minutes".
   Deployed DPoP implementations have converged on a 60-second window
   with roughly 30 seconds of skew tolerance; this document adopts that
   convergence.

   Residual: no analysis establishes 60 seconds as optimal, here or in
   [RFC9449].  The figure reflects operational convergence and this
   document claims nothing more for it.

B.2.2.  Classification Mechanism

   RESOLVED by deferral.  [RFC9334] establishes the pattern of
   specifying roles while leaving evidence formats and appraisal
   policies to separate documents.  Section 9 adopts RATS vocabulary so
   a future classification document can be written against established
   terminology.

B.2.3.  Independent Security Analysis

   ADDRESSED.  An independent source-level review has been performed by
   a party outside the design, and its findings are recorded in
   Section B.4.  The item is no longer open in the sense it was written.

   It is not, however, closed in the stronger sense.  The review was
   static and source-based, and by the reviewer's own statement was not
   a dynamic penetration test.

B.3.  Findings From Automated Adversarial Analysis

   Methods that do not depend on a reviewer's judgment were applied:
   falsifiable search over the binding digest, and differential
   execution of two independently written implementations.  These found
   five defects, four in the reference implementation and one in this
   document:

   o  The binding digest normalised its inputs, so two distinct tool
      names produced one digest.  Section 4.2 now requires canonical
      form and refusal rather than normalisation.

   o  A mandate with no expiry was accepted as never expiring.

   o  A mandate with a malformed scope list was accepted as permitting.

   o  Identity fields were parsed coercively in one implementation and
      strictly in another.

   o  [RFC9110] optional-whitespace handling differs between conforming
      HTTP stacks, so two implementations disagreed about whether the
      same octets named the same tool.  This was a defect in this
      document.

B.4.  Findings From Independent Review

   The following were identified by a reviewer outside the design team.
   Each has been verified against the source and carries a regression
   test.

B.4.1.  Peer Enrolment Did Not Bind Records to Certificates
        (High, RESOLVED)

   The reference implementation contained a function binding a node
   record to the certificate a peer actually presented.  The HTTP
   enrolment path never called it.  Enrolment accepted the record's
   self-declared domain as sufficient, so an unauthenticated caller
   controlling both the domain field and the URL could have an arbitrary
   record promoted to verified trust.

   This is the same class of defect as several others found during
   development: a correct, tested library that no running code reached.
   It had survived the authors' own security audit.

   Normative consequence, now reflected in Section 11: an implementation
   MUST NOT assign verified trust to a peer on the basis of a record's
   self-declared domain.  The record MUST be bound to the authenticated
   TLS endpoint before any trust is assigned.  Where no certificate is
   available, verified trust MUST NOT be reachable.

B.4.2.  Mutual Trust Was Self-Assertable (High, RESOLVED)

   Mutual peering status was taken from a field in the initiating
   caller's request.  Mutual trust means that each party verified the
   other; the second half cannot be asserted by the party seeking it.

   Normative consequence: a node MUST NOT assign mutual status on the
   basis of caller-supplied metadata.  Mutual status MUST derive from
   independently authenticated evidence from both participants.

B.4.3.  Self-Asserted Bindings in Standalone Mode (RESOLVED)

   Where no external verifier is configured, the reference gateway
   creates identity bindings from a request.  This is a development
   affordance and is documented as such, but the document did not
   previously forbid it in production.

   Normative consequence: a production profile MUST require an
   externally authenticated identity.  Self-registration MUST NOT be
   available in that profile.

B.4.4.  Two Generations of Authorization Coexist (DOCUMENTED)

   The implementation contains both the session-binding model and the
   request-credential model this document specifies.  The reference
   gateway has not fully converged on the latter.

   This document specifies the request credential as canonical.  Readers
   should not infer from the existence of a reference implementation
   that the reference implementation is wholly conformant; Appendix A
   states what has been demonstrated.

B.4.5.  A2A and T2T Are Delegation Paths, Not Channels (RESOLVED)

   The agent-to-agent path authorises delegation but does not establish
   an authenticated destination channel.  The tool-to-tool path
   validates chaining semantics rather than executing across
   independently authenticated tools.

   Normative consequence: an implementation MUST NOT treat
   authorisation to delegate as delivery.  The destination identity MUST
   authenticate independently before execution.

B.4.6.  Credential Pass-Through Needs Bounds (RESOLVED)

   Forwarded upstream credentials are relayed without inspection, which
   is correct for confidentiality and incomplete as a specification.
   Bounds on size, audience, destination binding, lifetime, persistence
   and logging belong in this document rather than in deployment advice.

B.4.7.  Hardening Is Optional (RESOLVED)

   Argument filtering and related controls are enabled by configuration.
   A reader may otherwise attribute their properties to the protocol.
   This document should distinguish a core profile from a hardened
   deployment profile.

B.4.8.  Revocation Is Eventually Consistent (SPECIFIED)

   Federation has no global consensus by design.  Revocation converges;
   it is not globally synchronous.  Short credential lifetimes bound the
   exposure window, and this should be stated as a security property
   rather than left implicit -- particularly for irreversible actions.

B.5.  Maturity Statement

   The reference implementation is a working security reference with
   attack-oriented regression coverage and identified hardening gaps.
   It is not independently audited production security software.

   An independent third-party audit, formal review of the federation
   trust model, and multi-node adversarial testing at scale remain
   appropriate and have not been performed.

   The strongest claim this document supports is that its principal
   mechanisms have been attacked by several methods and by one party
   outside the design, that every defect found has been fixed and pinned
   by a regression test, and that the process found defects the authors'
   own audit did not.

   All findings from the -00 review cycle are closed.  That is a
   statement about a finite list, not about the absence of defects, and
   the reviewer's own characterisation should be carried forward: the
   review was static and source-based and was not a penetration test.

   Positioning note: this document now situates itself against OAuth 2.0
   (Section 3.3) and Secure Asset Transfer (Section 3.4) rather than
   presenting itself as unprecedented.  Both comparisons narrow the
   novelty claim, and both were added because narrowing it makes the
   remainder easier to evaluate.

   What would materially raise confidence, in order: a commissioned
   third-party audit, formal analysis of the federation trust model,
   adversarial testing across more than two nodes, and a third
   independent implementation.  None has been performed.

Authors' Addresses

   XCP Working Group
   AGI-Gateway

   Email: research@agi-gateway.org
   URI:   https://github.com/AGI-Gateway/XCP
